
Stackoverflow:
Our mission is to become Europe's leading point-of-sale software for retailers. Every day we develop our product and ourselves and live for the satisfaction of our clients, ranging from small business to large corporations. You can help us!
Joel Test
Source control
One-step build
Daily builds
Bug database
Bugs fixed before writing new code
Up-to-date schedule
Specs
Quiet working conditions
Best tools that money can buy
Testers
Code screening
Hallway usability testing 

We seek a UI Software Engineer who is able to think outside of the box and come up with solutions quickly to help business in making time sensitive decisions, has strong communication and analytical skills, always drives for excellence and self motivated.
Key Qualifications

Apple:
In-depth understanding of data structures and algorithms
Experience in UI design, development for both Web bases and Mobile platforms
Proficient understanding of web markup, including HTML5, CSS3
Strong proficiency in JavaScript, including DOM manipulation and the JavaScript object model with understanding of React.js and its core principles or any other libraries
Familiarity with newer specifications of EcmaScript, Familiarity with RESTful APIs
Experience with data structure libraries (e.g., Immutable.js)
Experience with common front-end development and build tools such as Babel, Webpack, NPM, etc.
Basic knowledge of image authoring tools, to be able to crop, resize, or perform small adjustments on an image. Familiarity with tools such as Gimp or Photoshop is a plus.
Strong problem-solving and analytical abilities
Ability to rapidly learn new technologies
Strong written and oral communication skills


7+ years experience developing rich UI/Front-end for user-facing web applications.
4+ years experience in architecture, design and development of systems using Java in a Unix environment
Strong experience with AngularJS, Bootstrap, jQuery, JavaScript, HTML DOM, HTML5, CSS3, single page web application and client side MVC architecture.
Experience with data-driven web development, including strong knowledge of JSON and AJAX.
Extensive use of APIs and deep understanding of HTTP and REST architecture.
Experience in developing secure web applications and knowledge of application vulnerabilities such as Cross Site Scripting (XSS), Cross Site Request Forgery (CSRF) etc.
Experience building test automation frameworks and business use-case testing
Experience with web services development using Java and the JEE stack (Spring, Hibernate, Log4J, SQL, Oracle, Tomcat).
Experience with relational database is useful and desired, but not required.
Experience with online ad industry is useful and desired, but not required.


Flipkart++:

Data Structures:

•       Array

•       Linked List

•       Binary Tree, Binary Search Tree, Tree traversal

•       Heap

•       Hash Table

•       Stack

•       Queue

•       Trie

•       Graph (both directed and undirected)

 

Algorithms:

•       Depth First Search

•       Breadth First Search

•       Sorting

•       Bubble Sort

•       Merge Sort

•       Quick Sort

•       Radix/Bucket Sort

•       Traversals (On multiple data structures)  