
Q1.What is Vue.js ? What are the advantages of it ?

Vue is a progressive framework used to building user interfaces.The core library is focused on the view layer only, and is easy to pick up and integrate with other libraries or existing projects.

the "progressive" means its implemented as additional markup to html. it basically a template model bound to a data model. if the model is updated the browsers html is updated, that is it reacts to model updates.

it approach is similar to react, but its a template based view engine as opposed to react's component based view engine.



Following are the advantages of using Vue.js.

Small in size — The size of this framework is 18 to 21KB and it takes no time for the user to download and use it.

Easy to Understand — One of the reasons for the popularity of this framework is that it is quite easy to understand.The user can easily add Vue.js to his web project because of its simple structure.

Simple Integration — Vue.js can be integrated with the existing applications easily.

Flexibility — This flexibility also makes it easy to understand for the developers of React.js, Angular.js, and any other new JavaScript framework.

Virtual DOM — It uses virtual DOM similar to other existing frameworks such as ReactJS, Ember etc.Virtual DOM is a light - weight in -memory tree representation of the original HTML DOM and updated without affecting the original DOM.

Components — Used to create reusable custom elements in VueJS applications.

Two - Way Communication — Vue.js also facilitates two way communications because of its MVVM architecture which makes it quite easy to handle HTML 
blocks.

Q2.What are all the life cycle hooks in Vue instance ?

Each Vue instance goes through series of steps when they are created, mounted and destroyed.Along the way, it will also runs functions called life cycle hooks, giving us the opportunity to add our own code at specific stage.Below are the events, a Vue instance goes through.

beforeCreate — The first hook in the creation hooks.They allow us to perform actions before our component has even been added to the DOM.We do not have access to the DOM inside of this.

created — This hook can be used to run code after an instance is created.We can access the reactive data.But templates and Virtual DOM have not yet been mounted or rendered.

beforeMount — The beforeMount hook runs right before the initial render happens and after the template or render functions have been compiled.Most likely we’ll never need to use this hook.

mounted — We will have full access to the reactive component, templates, and rendered DOM.This is the most frequently used hook.

beforeUpdate — This hook runs after data changes on our component and the update cycle begins.But runs right before the DOM is patched and re - rendered.

updated — This hook runs after data changes on our component and the DOM re - renders.If we need to access the DOM after a property change, here is probably the safest place to do it.

beforeDestroy — This hook will run right before tearing down the instance.If we need to clean up events or reactive subscriptions, this is the right place to do it.
destroyed — This hook will be used to do any last minute clean up.

Q3.What is the difference between v - show and v -if directives ?

Below are some of the main differences between between v - show and v -if directives:

*v -if only renders the element to the DOM if the expression passes whereas v - show renders all elements to the DOM and then uses the CSS display property to show / hide elements based on expression.

v -if supports v -else and v -else -if directives whereas v - show doesn't support else directives.

**v -if has higher toggle costs since it add or remove the DOM every time while v - show has higher initial render costs.i.e, v - show has a performance advantage if the elements are switched on and off frequently, while the v -if has the advantage when it comes to initial render time.

v -if supports tab but v - show doesn't support.

Q4.What is key in Vue.js ?

In order to render DOM elements more efficiently, Vue.js reuses the elements instead of creating them from scratch every time.This default mode is efficient, but in some cases it may causes problems.For example, if you try to render the same input element in both v -if and v -else blocks then it holds the previous value as below:

Q5.Why should not use if and for directives together on the same element ?

It is recommended not to use v -if on the same element as v -for.Because v -for directive has a higher priority than v -if.There are two common cases where this can be tempting:

To filter items in a list(e.g.v -for= "user in users" v -if= "user.isActive").In these cases, replace users with a new computed property that returns your filtered list(e.g.activeUsers).
To avoid rendering a list if it should be hidden(e.g.v -for= "user in users" v -if= "shouldShowUsers").In these cases, move the v -if to a container element(e.g.ul, ol).

Q6.What is the difference between comptuted properties and methods ?

Computed properties are getter function in Vue instance rather than actual methods.
we can define the same function as a method instead.
However, the difference is that computed properties are cached based on their dependencies.
A computed property will only re - evaluate when some of its dependencies have changed.
In comparison, a method invocation will always run the function whenever a re - render happens.
When we have to compute something by doing lot of computations like looping through a large array, it is best to use
computed properties instead of a method.Without caching, we would spend more time than necessary.When we do not want cache, we can use a method instead.

Q7.What is $parent in Vue ?

Similar to $root, the $parent property can be used to access the parent instance from a child.

Although it provides direct access, it makes the application hard to test and debug.And we can not easily find out the where the mutation come from.

Vue also provides $child just like $parent, but it can be used to access the child instance.

Q8.What is the role of ref in Vue.js ?

Despite the existence of props and events, sometimes if we still need to directly access a child component, we can assign a reference ID to the child component using the ref attribute.For example:

Now in the component where we have defined this ref, we can use:

$refs are only populated after the component has been rendered, and they are not reactive.Hence we should avoid accessing $refs from within templates or computed properties.

Q9.Why do we need local registration ?

Global registration often isn’t ideal.For example, if we are using a build system like Webpack, globally registering all components means that even if we stop using a component, it could still be included in our final build.This unnecessarily increases the amount of JavaScript your users have to download.In these cases, you can define your components as plain JavaScript objects:

Then define the components you’d like to use in a components option:

Q10.What is Mixins ?

Mixins are a flexible way to distribute reusable functionalities for Vue components.A mixin object can contain any component options.When a component uses a mixin, all options in the mixin will be “mixed” into the component’s own options.Example:

Q11.How Vue.js track changes ?

When you pass a plain JavaScript object to a Vue instance as its data option, Vue will walk through all of its properties and convert them to getter / setters using Object.defineProperty.

The getter / setters are invisible to the user, but under the hood they enable Vue to perform dependency - tracking and change - notification when properties are accessed or modified.

Every component instance has a corresponding watcher instance, which records any properties “touched” during the component’s render as dependencies.Later on when a dependency’s setter is triggered, it notifies the watcher, which in turn causes the component to re - render.

Q12.What are Async Components ?

In large applications, we may need to divide the app into smaller chunks and only load a component from the server when it’s needed.To make that easier, Vue allows you to define our component as a factory function that asynchronously resolves your component definition.Vue will only trigger the factory function when the component needs to be rendered and will cache the result for future re - renders.For example:

As we can see, the factory function receives a resolve callback, which should be called when we have retrieved your component definition from the server.We can also call reject(reason) to indicate the load has failed.

Q13.What are filters in Vue.js ?

Vue.js allows us to define filters that can be used to apply common text formatting.Filters are usable in two places: mustache interpolations and v - bindexpressions.Filters should be appended to the end of the JavaScript expression, denoted by the "pipe" symbol:

Q14.What is Vue Router ?

Vue Router is the official router for Vue.js.It deeply integrates with Vue.js core to make building Single Page Applications with Vue.js easy to implement.Its features include:

Nested route / view mapping
Modular, component - based router configuration
Route params, query, wildcards
View transition effects powered by Vue.js’ transition system
Fine - grained navigation control
Links with automatic active CSS classes
Customizable Scroll Behavior
HTML5 history mode or hash mode, with auto - fallback in IE9


https://www.toptal.com/vue-js/interview-questions

Why would you choose Vue.js over other front-end frameworks?

When a developer chooses a tech stack they should display an understanding of the pros and cons of alternative solutions. Vue.js should be compared with the most popular front-end frameworks, React and Angular.
Performance

All three frameworks display similar performance. No significant difference here. However, Angular apps with the same base features and functionality have a larger compiled size than two other frameworks.
Ease of Use

React is widely considered to have a steep learning curve. Developers need to learn JSX, ES6, and a build system (like webpack) before they can be productive with React. Create React App assumes that you are building a single-page app thus adopting React for other scenarios would require extra learning time.

Angular effectively requires knowing TypeScript to get started with it. Angular framework design targets building enterprise-scale applications and is quite complex. Developers need to familiarize themselves with an extensive framework API and its concepts before starting to be productive.

One design goal of Vue.js was for it to be incrementally adoptable. This means you can drop it into legacy projects and start using it without rebuilding the whole app from the ground up. Vue.js uses core web technologies that web developers are already familiar with: HTML, CSS, and plain JavaScript (ES5). Using build tools is not required: You can include Vue with just a <script> tag.
Suitability for Large-scale Apps

React and Angular were developed by Facebook and Google, respectively, so they have been enterprise-grade frameworks from the start. While Vue.js started as a one-man project, it’s come a long way since then, attracting a large number of supporters and developers—its core team now has more than 20 developers.

More to the point, Vue.js has been adopted by a number of companies including the likes of Adobe and Alibaba.

Thus, all three frameworks are well-suited for building large-scale apps.
Ecosystem

React is the most popular framework at the moment, having a considerably richer ecosystem than both Vue and Angular, with a large number of third-party libraries.

To sum up, Vue.js is on equal footing with other frameworks when building large-scale apps, and it excels when you need to work with legacy applications or jump in and get something done fast. But it’s worth checking ecosystem support for your project’s particulars first.


Explain Vue.js reactivity and common issues when tracking changes.


All properties defined in a Vue instance’s data option are reactive, meaning that if they change, the component is automatically updated and re-rendered as needed.

All such properties are converted to getters and setters during initialization, thus allowing Vue to detect when those properties are accessed or changed.

The following limitations must be accounted for when designing a Vue app:

    Vue cannot detect object property addition or deletion due to a JavaScript limitation, so the Vue.set method must be used to add new root-level reactive properties.
    Similarly, Vue cannot detect when an array item is modified using an index. Vue.set must be used here as well.



What are mixins? Describe their benefits and drawbacks.


Mixin support is a feature that allows code reuse between components in a Vue.js application and a software composition tool.

A mixin is a JavaScript object that can contain any option that a component can contain. All mixin content is merged with a component’s options when that component uses a mixin.

Mixins help with following the DRY (don’t repeat yourself) principle. A mixin can even be applied globally to every component instance. In that case, it’s called a global mixin.

Mixins are a powerful tool, but some caution is needed while using them. As with all injected code, we should be careful to avoid maintenance issues and unexpected behavior.

It helps to implement mixins using pure functions that don’t modify anything outside their own scope.

Global mixins should be avoided, as affecting every single component can lead to maintenance issues as an application grows. Injecting specific mixins to components as needed leads to more maintainable code.


What is a single-file component?

A single-file component is a file with a .vue extension that contains a Vue component. It contains the component’s template, logic, and styles all bundled together in one file. It consists of one <script> block, optional <template> and <style> blocks, and possible additional custom blocks.

To use one, you need to set up Vue Loader for parsing the file (usually done as part of a webpack building pipeline). But this then also supports using non-default languages such as Sass or HTML templating languages with pluggable pre-processors.



Describe data flow between components in a Vue.js app.





Hide answer
answer badge


List the most common cause of memory leaks in Vue.js apps and how they can be solved.


Memory leaks in Vue.js applications often come from using third-party libraries that create their own instances and/or manipulate the DOM. The v-if directive and the Vue Router destroy Vue component instances; however, cleaning up after any third party library should be done manually in the beforeDestroy() lifecycle hook.

For example, let’s say we use a fictional library, PowerGraph.js, inside our component. It creates a graph instance that displays some data on the page:

mounted() {
  this.chart = new PowerGraph();
}

We need to call the graph instance’s destroy() method if it’s provided or implement our own cleanup method:

beforeDestroy() {
  this.chart.destroy();
}

If cleanup is not done before our component gets destroyed, then that memory is never going to be released. Hence, a memory leak.



Explain the difference between slots and scoped slots.

A slot is a placeholder in a child component that is filled with content passed from the parent. Content of a regular slot is compiled in the parent’s scope and then passed to the child component.

Thus you can’t use child component properties in a slot’s content. But scoped slots allow you to pass child component data to the parent scope and then use that data in slot content.
